# Pandas - Module 4 Challenge

## Code Source
The code location is: [Click Here](https://github.com/jaidevkler/pandas-challenge-1)

## Files
* module_4_challenge.ipynb
* client_dataset.csv (inside the Resources directory)

## Part 1 - Exploring the data
In this part we try to explore the data first reading in the dataset and checking the head of the dataset by using the head() function. To further explore the data we check the columns and get some basic statistics on the data by using the describe() function. We also check if there are any null value in the data set by calling the null().sum() functions. We use the value_counts() function for further exploration of the data.

## Part 2 - Transform the data
We transform the data by adding some new columns - line_subtotal, shipping_price, line_price, line_cost and line_profit. This helps us to better see if there is a relationship between the client with the most number of orders and the revenue & profit generated by the client. 

## Part 3: Confirm your work
We check our work by checking the total price of three orders that has been provided to us and the output from our dataset.

## Part 4: Summarize and Analyze
We then create a new dataframe with only the required columns. We rename the columns that are suitable for presentation. We modify the amounts to Millions so they are more readable. And finally we sort the data based on total profit.

## Summary
The analysis tries to investigate if there is a relationship between the total numbers of orders placed by a client and the total revenue & profitability generated by that client. The analysis uses the top five clients based on number of orders placed. The result shows that there is no relationship between the two, as the client (Client ID: 33615) with the greatest number of orders (220 nos.) was last based on revenue and profitability and the client (Client ID: 24741)  with the least number of orders (207 nos.) was the best in terms of revenue and profitability. This can also be explained by the large difference in unit prices where the least expensive unit was USD 0.01 and the most expensive unit was USD 1396.23. Furthermore there is also a large difference in the quantity per order. So, a client could be placing large number of orders for cheaper unit whereas some clients could be placing few orders but with more expensive items. 

To further show that there is no relationship we carried out an analysis with all the clients. This showed that the client (Client ID 78965) that generated the most amount of Revenue and Profit only placed 173 orders, which was a lot lower than all the five clients with the greatest number of orders.

